Dear Editor,

We are submitting our manuscript "openTSNE: a modular Python library for t-SNE
dimensionality reduction and embedding," describing our open-source
implementation of t-SNE to be considered for publication in the Journal of
Statistical Software. Our library -- openTSNE -- has been widely adopted by the
machine learning and bioinformatics communities, and has garnered over 950
GitHub stars and has reached over 500,000 downloads.

We submitted an earlier version of this manuscript to your journal some time
ago, and you kindly provided prompt feedback on what we should improve for
this manuscript to be considered for publication. We now believe we have
thoroughly addressed your comments:

> Such an overview should not only cover Python but also other statistical
  software environments

We have now included popular open-source packages from both R and Julia in our
comparisons, both of which are widely used in the machine learning and
bioinformatics communities.

> The Implementation section constitutes a core component of a JSS manuscript.
  More care is needed to present the module building on the methods reviewed
  and indicating which functions cover these functionality, elaborate on the
  class and data structure used as well as which methods are available as well
  as an overview on arguments and how they can be suitably set and modified.
  Also generalizability and extensibility of the implementation should be
  discussed in this context.

We have greatly extended our Implementation section with a more detailed
description of our library, class-structure, and include a brief tutorial on
how to get started with openTSNE.

> Then the application of the implementation should be demonstrated. For the
  interested reader who wants to learn about how to use the module in practice
  for their own data it would be important to not only explain the application
  and show results but also demonstrate how they are obtained with the software
  provided.

We have now included code snippets for each of the figures in the manuscript
which demonstrate how easy it is to get started with and use the more advanced
capabilities of openTSNE.

> The replication material needs to be improved that it can be easily verified
  that all necessary components are contained, it is clear which part allows to
  replicate which part of the manuscript.

We have included an accompanying GitHub repository
(https://github.com/pavlin-policar/opentsne-paper), which contains all the
scripts and other material necessary to reproduce the results shown in the
manuscript. We provide instructions on how to reproduce both the figures and
benchmarks.

Kind regards,
Pavlin Poličar, Martin Stražar, Blaž Zupan

Ljubljana, April 4th, 2022